
Global ocean temperatures set new record in 2024
 
 
 
Features
Videos Podcasts Specials Articles
Shorts 
Donate
English
Español (Spanish)
Français (French)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Brasil (Portuguese)
India (English)
हिंदी (Hindi)
Videos Podcasts Articles
Short News Feature Stories
The Latest
Explore All
About
Team
Contact
Donate
Subscribe page
Submissions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Wild Madagascar
Selva tropicales
Impact
For Kids
Mongabay.org
Tropical Forest Network
Global ocean temperatures set new record in 2024
 
Edward Carver
15 Jan 2025
Pacific Ocean 
Comments
Share article
Share this article
If you liked this story, share it with other people.
Facebook
Linkedin
Threads
Whatsapp
Reddit
Email 
Page link
 
Average temperatures across the world’s oceans reached an all-time high in 2024, according to a multi-team study published Jan. 10.The temperatures surpassed even those of 2023, which themselves represented a marked uptick over any previous years on record.Each of the two main metrics for ocean temperature hit a record high in 2024, while a commonly cited overall metric that accounts for both land and sea temperatures also reached a new high.The findings fit with a decades-long trend of ocean heating. The long-term rise is both a result of climate change and a cause of climate change effects like sea-level rise and increased likelihood of extreme weather.See All Key Ideas 
Average temperatures across the world’s oceans reached an all-time high in 2024, a new multi-team study shows. The temperatures surpassed even those of 2023, which themselves represented a marked uptick over any previous years on record, according to the study published Jan.10 in the journal Advances in Atmospheric Sciences.
The ocean stores about 90% of the excess heat from human-caused global warming and is therefore viewed as a measure of planetary health. The ocean data “continue to indicate unabated trends in global heating,” says the study, which had 54 authors led by Lijing Cheng of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing.
“To know what is happening to the climate, the answer is in the ocean,” John Abraham, a thermal scientist at the University of St. Thomas in the U.S. and a co-author of the study, said in a statement.
Ocean temperatures have risen steadily since the 1950s, when modern measurements were first taken. The graph shows the global ocean heat content (OHC) for the upper 2,000 meters (6,562 feet), relative to a 1981–2010 baseline. The energy unit is zetta joules (ZJ). One ZJ equals 10^21 joules. The within-year variation of OHC is shown in the inner box, with 2024 values shown in red. Image courtesy of Cheng et al.
The long-term rise in ocean temperatures isn’t just an effect of climate change but also a cause.
“[T]he weather is becoming more affected by warming oceans because the warmer waters add heat and moisture to the atmosphere — making our weather more wild,” Abraham told Mongabay in an email.
As hotter water evaporates, it creates more vapor in the atmosphere, contributing to heavier rains and storms, among other weather events. Water vapor is also a greenhouse gas, so it leads to still more warming over the long term.
Ocean warming also contributes to sea-level rise by helping melt ice sheets because water expands and occupies more volume as it warms. It also creates adverse effects for marine life, such as low-oxygen “dead zones” that choke out aquatic life.
Much of the rise in ocean temperatures over the last two years is due to an El Niño event that lasted roughly from April 2023 until mid-2024. El Niño is a natural, cyclical climate pattern that starts in the Pacific Ocean and can affect global temperatures. However, climate change was also a factor, the study’s authors write.
The ocean heat led to a global mass coral bleaching event, which began in 2023 and continued into 2024. It was the fourth mass bleaching event on record; the first took place in 1998. And it was the biggest. Research showed that more than three-fourths of the world’s reef areas were stressed, the most ever recorded.
Record-setting climate news has been commonplace for decades, including for ocean warming, with each decade warmer than the last. Reliable data from modern instruments dates back to the late 1950s.
Those include wire probes known as expendable bathythermographs, which are still in use. However, much of the best data for this and other studies now comes from Argo floats, which are like buoys that descend and drift underwater and are deployed at locations across the oceans. Some data also comes from sensors attached to seals, which go into areas around sea ice where other instruments aren’t feasible.
The authors used the collected data to determine the two main metrics for ocean temperatures: the global sea surface temperature (SST) for the ocean’s top 1 meter (about 3 feet) and the ocean heat content (OHC) for the upper 2,000 m (6,562 ft).
Both hit record highs in 2024.
SST was an estimated 0.07° Celsius (0.13° Fahrenheit) higher than in 2023 and 0.61°C (1.1°F) above a 1981-2010 baseline used by researchers. OHC, which the authors describe as a “robust” measure of climate change because it doesn’t experience large fluctuations like SST, was an estimated 16 zettajoules higher than in 2023. That amount of energy added to the ocean in 2024 is equivalent to about 140 times the entire world’s annual electricity generation, according to study co-author Kevin Trenberth, a distinguished scholar at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in the U.S.
The study’s release coincided with the more publicized news that 2024 was the hottest year on record overall, according to many leading government and scientific institutions. Behind those headlines is a third metric: the global marine surface temperature (GMST), which includes both land and sea figures. Some institutions found that GMST had risen to more than 1.5°C (2.7°F) above its preindustrial average in 2024, crossing a key threshold under the 2015 Paris Agreement; others found it just below. In any case, 2024 was only the second year since 2016, along with 2023, when all three metrics — SST, OHC and GMST — were the hottest on record.
Other research teams and institutions also publish annual ocean temperature findings, but this study is unique in the scope of its data and the fact that it’s peer reviewed, Trenberth told Mongabay. He and his colleagues were able to produce the vetted paper shortly after the year ended because they started the process before the data was final, he said.
Like Abraham, Trenberth expressed concern about the signals from the latest ocean data, warning that a tipping point may have been reached.
“The oceans are getting warm enough that they’re really beginning to have stronger influence,” he said. “Because up until now, the oceans have been certainly warming, but they haven’t been so warm that it has really changed the climate. And I think now the ocean feedback effects are actually changing the climate. And you know, that’s very worrisome, because it has impacts on all of the marine life.”
Lijing Cheng and Kevin Trenberth, authors of a new study on global ocean heating, pose for a photograph in Beijing. Image courtesy of Lijing Cheng.
Fur seals off of Australia. Some data used in this and other analyses of ocean temperatures come from sensors attached to seals, which enter areas where other instruments aren’t feasible. Image courtesy of Jeff Hester / Ocean Image Bank
Annalisa Bracco, a climatologist at the U.S. university Georgia Tech, wrote in The Conversation on Dec. 9 that scientists need to investigate “whether the past two years have been a sign of sudden acceleration in global warming.”
Bracco, who was not involved in the Cheng-led study, told Mongabay in an email that 2025 could see a slight decrease in global ocean temperatures, as is normal following an El Niño event. Still, the medium-term trend is “clearly towards warming (and we’re not doing much to change that).”
She warned that ocean heating would lead to changes in cloud formation and rain patterns that are “incredibly important from a societal perspective.”
Banner image: Bleached coral. Image via Vardhan Patankar / Wikimedia Commons
Ocean heating breaks record, again, with disastrous outcomes for the planet
Citation: 
Cheng, L., Abraham, J., Trenberth, K. E., Reagan, J., Zhang, H. M., Storto, A., … & Gues, F. (2025). Record High Temperatures in the Ocean in 2024. Advances in Atmospheric Sciences, 1-18.
Feedback: Use this form to send a message to the author of this post. If you want to post a public comment, you can do that at the bottom of the page.
Credits  
 
Rebecca Kessler Editor
TopicsClimate ChangeConservationEl NinoEnvironmentGlobal WarmingMarine ConservationOceansPacific OceanSee Topics 
Beyond the Safari
 
The colonial ghosts of Uganda’s ‘Queen Elizabeth’ park
Ashoka Mukpo
11 Apr 2025
 
 
As Africa eyes protected areas expansion of 1 million square miles, concerns over enforcement persist
Mike DiGirolamo
4 Feb 2025
 
For Ugandan farmers, good fences make good neighbors — of elephants
Ashoka Mukpo
13 Jan 2025
 
 
Park rangers enforce deadly violence in Uganda
Ashoka Mukpo
19 Dec 2024
The “fortress conservation” model is under pressure in East Africa, as protected areas become battlegrounds over history, human rights, and global efforts to halt biodiversity loss. Mongabay’s Special Issue goes beyond the region’s world-renowned safaris to examine how rural communities and governments are reckoning with conservation’s colonial origins, and trying to forge a path forward […]
Beyond the Safari series 
Free and open access to credible information
          Learn more
Latest articles
All articles
 
After 15 years, Sri Lanka’s Supreme Court blocks road upgrade in national park
Malaka Rodrigo
31 May 2025
 
Valmik Thapar, India’s tiger man, died on May 31st, aged 73
Rhett Ayers Butler
31 May 2025
 
From local planting to national plan, Belize bets on mangrove recovery
Ruth Kamnitzer
30 May 2025
 
Dom Phillips’ posthumous book centers on collaborative work for saving the Amazon
Karla Mendes
30 May 2025
 
Feature story
US pioneers restoration of deep water corals damaged by country’s worst oil spill
Liz Kimbrough
30 May 2025
 
Only a tiny % of the deep seafloor has ever been visually observed: Study
Edward Carver
30 May 2025
 
With areca leaves and rice bran, Bangladesh replaces single-use plastic tableware
Abu Siddique
30 May 2025
 
USAID cut curbs hopes at Ethiopia’s largest community conservation area
Solomon Yimer
30 May 2025
All articles
Subscribe
            Stay informed with news and inspiration from nature’s frontline.          
          Newsletter
News formats
Videos
Podcasts Articles
Specials
Shorts Features
The Latest
About
About
Contact
Donate Newsletters
Submissions
Terms of Use
External links
Wild Madagascar
Selva tropicales
For Kids
Mongabay.org
Tropical Forest Network
Social media
LinkedIn
Instagram
Youtube
X
Facebook
RSS / XML
Mastodon
Android App
Apple News

				© 2025 Copyright Conservation news. Mongabay is a U.S.-based non-profit conservation and environmental science news platform. Our EIN or tax ID is 45-3714703.
			
you're currently offline
